README.md, before:

# Galaxy Trucker

![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/build-passing-brightgreen)
![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)

## 📖 Project Overview

Galaxy Trucker is a Java-based implementation of the popular board game, developed as part of the Software Engineering course at Politecnico di Milano (Academic Year 2024–2025). Players construct their spaceships in real-time using pipes, engines, and cabins, while navigating meteoroids, space pirates, and other cosmic challenges.

## 🛠️ Project Structure

* **IS25-AM05-1.0-SNAPSHOT-server-<architecture>.jar**: Server component handling lobby management, game sessions, and communication protocols.

    * **Socket port**: `25565`
    * **RMI port**: `25566`
* **IS25-AM05-1.0-SNAPSHOT-client-<architecture>.jar**: Client application supporting GUI (JavaFX) or TUI (console) interfaces.

## 👥 Team Members

* **Giacomo Di Clerico** ([MishowHD](https://github.com/MishowHD))
* **Loreto Del Vecchio** ([lerry04](https://github.com/lerry04))
* **Giuseppe D’Ambrosi** ([giusedmb](https://github.com/giusedmb))
* **Lorenzo D’Ortona** ([LorenzoDOrtona](https://github.com/LorenzoDOrtona))

## 📦 Technologies & Dependencies

| Library / Plugin       | Version       | Purpose                                      |
|------------------------|---------------|----------------------------------------------|
| Maven                  | 3.6+          | Build automation                             |
| Java (JDK)             | 23            | Core programming language (source/target 23) |
| JUnit                  | 5.10.2 (test) | Unit testing framework                       |
| JavaFX Controls & FXML | 24            | Graphical user interface                     |
| JavaFX Media           | 24            | Multimedia support                           |
| Jackson Databind       | 2.17.2        | JSON serialization/deserialization           |

## ✅ Implemented Features

**Core Features**

| Feature                       | Status |
|:------------------------------|:------:|
| Ship building rules           |   ✅    |
| Full game rules               |   ✅    |
| Socket communication          |   ✅    |
| RMI communication             |   ✅    |
| Console-based interface (TUI) |   ✅    |
| Graphical interface (GUI)     |   ✅    |

**Advanced Features**

| Feature                      | Status |
|:-----------------------------|:------:|
| Test flight simulation       |   ✅    |
| Multiple concurrent games    |   ✅    |
| Persistence (data saving)    |   ⛔️   |
| Resilience to disconnections |   ⛔️   |

> **Legend:** ✅ Implemented • ⛔ Not implemented • ⚠️ In progress

---

## 📥 Installation & Execution

### Prerequisites

* Java 23 (or higher) installed and on your `PATH`.

  ```bash
  java -version
  ```
* Maven (for building from source).
* JAR files located in `deliverables/out/artifacts/` directory.

### Running the Server

The server listens on port **25565** for socket connections and **25566** for RMI.

```bash
cd deliverables/out/artifacts
java -jar IS25-AM05-1.0-SNAPSHOT-server-<architecture>.jar
```

### Running the Client

The client requires three arguments:

1. **Server IP** (e.g., `127.0.0.1`)
2. **Communication method**: `--socket` or `--rmi`
3. **Interface mode**: `--GUI` or `--TUI`

```bash
java -jar IS25-AM05-1.0-SNAPSHOT-client-<architecture>.jar <IP> <method> <interface>
```

#### Examples

* **GUI via socket (port 25565)**

  ```bash
  java -jar IS25-AM05-1.0-SNAPSHOT-client-<architecture>.jar 192.168.1.10 --socket --GUI
  ```
* **TUI via RMI (port 25566)**

  ```bash
  java -jar IS25-AM05-1.0-SNAPSHOT-client-<architecture>.jar 192.168.1.10 --rmi --TUI
  ```

## 🐞 Debug & Tips

* Check server console logs for binding or connection errors.
* Ensure ports 25565 (socket) and 25566 (RMI) are open and not blocked by firewall.
* Verify that both server and client run on the same Java version.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 📢 Distribution / Legal Notice

This project was developed by students as part of the Software Engineering course at Politecnico di Milano (Academic Year 2024–2025).  
The original game is distributed by **Cranio Creations**.

**Note:** For copyright reasons, the graphical assets included in this repository have been modified and do not correspond to the official game version.  
The MIT License applies **only to the code written by the students**, not to the original game's assets.

---

Commit message:

Update copyright and asset notice in README
Clarified copyright and asset usage information in README.

README.md, after:

# Galaxy Trucker

![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/build-passing-brightgreen)
![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)

## 📖 Project Overview

Galaxy Trucker is a Java-based implementation of the popular board game, developed as part of the Software Engineering course at Politecnico di Milano (Academic Year 2024–2025). Players construct their spaceships in real-time using pipes, engines, and cabins, while navigating meteoroids, space pirates, and other cosmic challenges.

## 🛠️ Project Structure

* **IS25-AM05-1.0-SNAPSHOT-server-<architecture>.jar**: Server component handling lobby management, game sessions, and communication protocols.

    * **Socket port**: `25565`
    * **RMI port**: `25566`
* **IS25-AM05-1.0-SNAPSHOT-client-<architecture>.jar**: Client application supporting GUI (JavaFX) or TUI (console) interfaces.

## 👥 Team Members

* **Giacomo Di Clerico** ([MishowHD](https://github.com/MishowHD))
* **Loreto Del Vecchio** ([lerry04](https://github.com/lerry04))
* **Giuseppe D’Ambrosi** ([giusedmb](https://github.com/giusedmb))
* **Lorenzo D’Ortona** ([LorenzoDOrtona](https://github.com/LorenzoDOrtona))

## 📦 Technologies & Dependencies

| Library / Plugin       | Version       | Purpose                                      |
|------------------------|---------------|----------------------------------------------|
| Maven                  | 3.6+          | Build automation                             |
| Java (JDK)             | 23            | Core programming language (source/target 23) |
| JUnit                  | 5.10.2 (test) | Unit testing framework                       |
| JavaFX Controls & FXML | 24            | Graphical user interface                     |
| JavaFX Media           | 24            | Multimedia support                           |
| Jackson Databind       | 2.17.2        | JSON serialization/deserialization           |

## ✅ Implemented Features

**Core Features**

| Feature                       | Status |
|:------------------------------|:------:|
| Ship building rules           |   ✅    |
| Full game rules               |   ✅    |
| Socket communication          |   ✅    |
| RMI communication             |   ✅    |
| Console-based interface (TUI) |   ✅    |
| Graphical interface (GUI)     |   ✅    |

**Advanced Features**

| Feature                      | Status |
|:-----------------------------|:------:|
| Test flight simulation       |   ✅    |
| Multiple concurrent games    |   ✅    |
| Persistence (data saving)    |   ⛔️   |
| Resilience to disconnections |   ⛔️   |

> **Legend:** ✅ Implemented • ⛔ Not implemented • ⚠️ In progress

---

## 📥 Installation & Execution

### Prerequisites

* Java 23 (or higher) installed and on your `PATH`.

  ```bash
  java -version
  ```
* Maven (for building from source).
* JAR files located in `deliverables/out/artifacts/` directory.

### Running the Server

The server listens on port **25565** for socket connections and **25566** for RMI.

```bash
cd deliverables/out/artifacts
java -jar IS25-AM05-1.0-SNAPSHOT-server-<architecture>.jar
```

### Running the Client

The client requires three arguments:

1. **Server IP** (e.g., `127.0.0.1`)
2. **Communication method**: `--socket` or `--rmi`
3. **Interface mode**: `--GUI` or `--TUI`

```bash
java -jar IS25-AM05-1.0-SNAPSHOT-client-<architecture>.jar <IP> <method> <interface>
```

#### Examples

* **GUI via socket (port 25565)**

  ```bash
  java -jar IS25-AM05-1.0-SNAPSHOT-client-<architecture>.jar 192.168.1.10 --socket --GUI
  ```
* **TUI via RMI (port 25566)**

  ```bash
  java -jar IS25-AM05-1.0-SNAPSHOT-client-<architecture>.jar 192.168.1.10 --rmi --TUI
  ```

## 🐞 Debug & Tips

* Check server console logs for binding or connection errors.
* Ensure ports 25565 (socket) and 25566 (RMI) are open and not blocked by firewall.
* Verify that both server and client run on the same Java version.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 📢 Distribution / Legal Notice

This project was developed by students as part of the Software Engineering 
course at Politecnico di Milano (Academic Year 2024–2025).  
The original board game **Galaxy Trucker** is owned and distributed by 
**Cranio Creations**.

**⚠️ Copyright Notice:** For copyright reasons, this repository does NOT 
contain the official game's graphical assets. All images and graphics included 
are simplified placeholders created solely for educational demonstration purposes.

The MIT License applies **only to the source code written by the students**, 
not to the Galaxy Trucker game design, rules, or any intellectual property 
owned by Cranio Creations.

---
